[hautboys playing fanfare]
♪ ♪
THOU HAST IT NOW:
KING, CAWDOR, GLAMIS,ALL AS THE WEIRD WOMEN PROMISED,
AND I FEAR THOU PLAY'DSTMOST FOULLY FOR IT.
YET IT WAS SAID IT SHOULD NOTSTAND IN THY POSTERITY,
BUT THAT MYSELF SHOULD BE THEROOT AND FATHER OF MANY KINGS.
IF THERE COME TRUTHFROM THEM--
AS UPON THEE, MACBETH,THEIR SPEECHES SHINE--
WHY, BY THE VERITIESON THEE MADE GOOD,
MAY THEY NOT BEMY ORACLES AS WELL,
AND SET ME UP IN HOPE?
HERE'S OURCHIEF GUEST.
IF HE HADBEEN FORGOTTEN,
IT HAD BEEN AS A GAPIN OUR GREAT FEAST,
AND ALL-THINGUNBECOMING.
TONIGHT WE HOLDA SOLEMN SUPPER,
AND I'LL REQUESTYOUR PRESENCE.
LET YOUR HIGHNESSCOMMAND UPON ME,
TO THE WHICHMY DUTIES ARE
WITH A MOST INDISSOLUBLETIE FOREVER KNIT.
RIDE YOUTHIS AFTERNOON?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
WE SHOULD HAVE ELSEDESIRED YOUR GOOD ADVICE
IN THIS DAY'S COUNCIL.
BUT WE'LL TAKE TOMORROW.
IS IT FAR YOU RIDE?
AS FAR, MY LORD,
AS WILL FILL UP THE TIME'TWIXT THIS AND SUPPER.
GO NOT MY HORSETHE BETTER,
I MUST BECOME A BORROWEROF THE NIGHT FOR A DARK HOUR.
FAIL NOT OUR FEAST.
MY LORD,I WILL NOT.
WE HEAR OUR BLOODY COUSINSARE BESTOWED
IN ENGLANDAND IN IRELAND,
NOT CONFESSINGTHEIR CRUEL PARRICIDE,
FILLING THEIR HEARERSWITH STRANGE INVENTION.
BUT OF THAT TOMORROW,WHEN WHEREWITHAL
WE SHALL HAVECAUSE OF STATE
CRAVING US JOINTLY.
HIE YOU TO HORSE.
ADIEU, TILL YOURETURN AT NIGHT.
GOES FLEANCE WITH YOU?
AYE,MY GOOD LORD.
OUR TIMEDOES CALL UPON US.
I WISH YOUR HORSESSWIFT OF FOOT,
AND SO I DO COMMEND YOUTO THEIR BACKS.
FAREWELL.
LET EVERY MAN BE MASTEROF HIS TIME TILL 7:00 AT NIGHT.
TO MAKE SOCIETYTHE SWEETER WELCOME,
WE WILL KEEP OURSELFTILL SUPPERTIME ALONE.
SIRRAH,A WORD WITH YOU.
WHILES THEN,GOD BE W' YE.
ATTEND THOSE MENOUR LEISURE?
THEY AREWITHOUT THE GATE.
BRING THEMBEFORE US.
TO BE THUS IS NOTHING!
[whispering]But to be safely thus.
OUR FEARS IN BANQUOSTICK DEEP,
AND IN HIS ROYALTY OF NATURE
REIGNS THATWHICH WOULD BE FEARED.
'TIS MUCH HE DARES,
AND TO THAT DAUNTLESS TEMPEROF HIS MIND,
HE HATH A WISDOMTHAT DOTH GUIDE HIS VALOR
TO ACT IN SAFETY.
THERE IS NONE BUT HEWHOSE BEING I DO FEAR,
AND UNDER HIMMY GENIUS IS REBUKED,
AS IT WAS SAIDMARK ANTONY'S WAS
BY CAESAR.
HE CHID THE SISTERS
WHEN FIRST THEY PUTTHE NAME OF KING UPON ME,
AND BADE THEM SPEAK TO HIM.
THEN PROPHET-LIKE THEY HAIL'DHIM FATHER TO A LINE OF KINGS.
UPON MY HEAD THEY PLACEDA FRUITLESS CROWN,
AND PUT A BARREN SCEPTERIN MY GRIP,
THENCE TO BE WRENCHEDWITH AN UNLINEAL HAND,
NO SON OF MINE SUCCEEDING.
IF IT BE SO, FOR BANQUO'S ISSUEHAVE I FILED MY MIND,
FOR THEM THE GRACIOUS DUNCANHAVE I MURDERED,
PUT RANCORS IN THE VESSELOF MY PEACE ONLY FOR THEM,
AND MINE ETERNAL JEWEL
GIVEN TO THE COMMON ENEMYOF MAN,
TO MAKE THEM KINGS--THE SEEDS OF BANQUO KINGS!
[breathing heavily]
RATHER THAN SO,COME FATE INTO THE LIST,
AND CHAMPION METO THE UTTERANCE!
WHO'S THERE?
WAS IT NOT...YESTERDAY
WE SPOKE TOGETHER?
IT WAS,SO PLEASE YOUR HIGHNESS.
WELL THEN,
NOW...
HAVE YOU CONSIDEREDOF MY SPEECHES?
KNOW THAT IT WAS HEIN THE TIMES PAST
WHICH HELD YOU SO UNDER FORTUNE,
WHICH YOU THOUGHTHAD BEEN OUR INNOCENT SELF?
THIS I MADE GOOD TO YOUIN OUR LAST CONFERENCE,
PASSED IN PROBATION WITH YOU--
HOW YOU WERE BORN IN HAND,HOW CROSSED, THE INSTRUMENTS,
WHO WROUGHT WITH THEM,
AND ALL THINGS ELSETHAT SHOULD TO HALF A SOUL
AND TO A NOTION CRAZED SAY,"THUS DID BANQUO."
YOU MADE IT KNOWN TO US.
I...DID SO,
AND WENT FURTHER, WHICH IS NOWOUR POINT OF SECOND MEETING.
DO YOU FIND YOUR PATIENCESO PREDOMINANT IN YOUR NATURES
THAT YOU CAN LET THIS GO?
ARE YOU SO GOSPELED TO PRAYFOR THIS GOOD MAN AND HIS ISSUE,
WHOSE HEAVY HANDHATH BOWED YOU TO THE GRAVE
AND BEGGARED YOURS FOREVER?
WE ARE MEN, MY LIEGE.
AYE, IN THE CATALOGYE GO FOR MEN,
AS HOUNDS AND GREYHOUNDS,MONGRELS, SPANIELS,
CURS, SHOUGHS,WATER-RUGS, DEMI-WOLVES,
ARE CLEPT ALLBY THE NAME OF DOGS.
THE VALUED FILE DISTINGUISHESTHE SWIFT, THE SLOW,
THE SUBTLE,THE HOUSEKEEPER,THE HUNTER,
EVERY ONE,ACCORDING TO THAT GIFT
WHICH BOUNTEOUS NATUREHATH IN HIM CLOSED,
WHEREBY HE DOES RECEIVEPARTICULAR ADDITION
FROM THE BILLTHAT WRITES THEM ALL ALIKE:
AND SO OF MEN.
NOW,
IF YOU HAVE A STATIONIN THE FILE,
NOT I' THE WORST RANKOF MANHOOD,
SAY IT,
AND I WILL PUT THATBUSINESS IN YOUR BOSOMS,
WHOSE EXECUTIONTAKES YOUR ENEMY OFF,
GRAPPLES YOU TO THE HEARTAND LOVE OF US,
WHO WEAR OUR HEALTH SICKLYIN HIS LIFE,
WHICH IN HIS DEATHWERE PERFECT.
I AM ONE, MY LIEGE,
WHOM THE VILE BLOWSAND BUFFETS OF THE WORLD
HATH SO INCENSEDTHAT I AM RECKLESS
WHAT I DOTO SPITE THE WORLD.
AND I ANOTHER,SO WEARY WITH DISASTERS,
TUGGED WITH FORTUNE,
I WOULD SET MY LIFEON ANY CHANCE, TO MEND IT,
OR--OR BE RID ON 'T.
BOTH OF YOU KNOWBANQUO WAS YOUR ENEMY.
TRUE, MY LORD.
SO IS HE MINE,
AND IN SUCH BLOODY DISTANCE
THAT EVERY MINUTEOF HIS BEING THRUSTS
AGAINST MY NEAREST OF LIFE.
AND THOUGH I COULDWITH BAREFACED POWER
SWEEP HIM FROM MY SIGHT,AND BID MY WILL AVOUCH IT,
YET...
I MUST NOT,
FOR CERTAIN FRIENDSTHAT ARE BOTH HIS AND MINE,
BUT WAIL HIS FALLWHO I MYSELF STRUCK DOWN.
AND THENCE IT IS THAT ITO YOUR ASSISTANCE DO MAKE LOVE,
MASKING THE BUSINESSFROM THE COMMON EYE
FOR SUNDRY WEIGHTY REASONS.
WE SHALL, MY LORD,PERFORM WHAT YOU COMMAND US.
THOUGH OUR LIVES--
YOUR SPIRITS SHINETHROUGH YOU.
WITHIN THIS HOUR,
AT MOST, I WILL ADVISE YOUWHERE TO PLANT YOURSELVES,
ACQUAINT YOU WITHTHE PERFECT SPY O' THE TIME,
THE MOMENT ON IT,FOR IT MUST BE DONE TONIGHT,
AND SOMETHINGFROM THE PALACE,
ALWAYS THOUGHTTHAT I REQUIRE A CLEARNESS.
AND WITH HIM--TO LEAVE NO RUBSNOR BOTCHES IN THE WORK--
FLEANCE HIS SON,THAT KEEPS HIM COMPANY,
WHOSE ABSENCEIS NO LESS MATERIAL TO ME
THAN IS HIS FATHER'S,
MUST EMBRACE THE FATEOF THAT DARK HOUR.
RESOLVE YOURSELVES APART.
I'LL COME TO YOU ANON.
WE ARE RESOLVED,MY LORD.
I'LL CALLUPON YOU STRAIGHT.
ABIDE WITHIN.
IT IS CONCLUDED.
BANQUO,THY SOUL'S FLIGHT,
IF IT FIND HEAVEN,
MUST FIND IT OUT TONIGHT.
IS BANQUO GONEFROM COURT?
AYE, MADAM,BUT RETURNS AGAIN TONIGHT.
SAY TO THE KING
I WOULD ATTEND HIS LEISUREFOR A FEW WORDS.
MADAM, I WILL.
NAUGHT'S HAD,ALL'S SPENT,
WHERE OUR DESIREIS GOT WITHOUT CONTENT.
'TIS SAFER TO BE THATWHICH WE DESTROY
THAN BY DESTRUCTION DWELLIN DOUBTFUL JOY.
HOW NOW, MY LORD?
WHY DO YOU KEEP ALONE,
OF SORRIEST FANCIESYOUR COMPANIONS MAKING,
USING THOSE THOUGHTSWHICH SHOULD INDEED HAVE DIED
WITH THEM THEY THINK ON?
THINGS WITHOUT ALL REMEDYSHOULD BE WITHOUT REGARD.
WHAT'S DONE IS DONE.
WE HAVE SCORCHEDTHE SNAKE,
NOT KILLED IT.
SHE'LL CLOSEAND BE HERSELF,
WHILES OUR POOR MALICEREMAINS IN DANGER
OF HER FORMER TOOTH.
BUT LET THE FRAMEOF THINGS DISJOINT,
BOTH THE WORLDS SUFFER,
ERE WE WILL EATOUR MEAL IN FEAR
AND SLEEP IN THE AFFLICTIONOF THESE TERRIBLE DREAMS
THAT SHAKE US NIGHTLY.
BETTER TO BEWITH THE DEAD,
WHOM WE, TO GAIN OUR PEACE,HAVE SENT TO PEACE,
THAN ON THE TORTURE OF THE MINDTO LIE IN RESTLESS ECSTASY.
AH, DUNCAN IS IN HIS GRAVE.
AFTER LIFE'S FITFUL FEVER,HE SLEEPS WELL.
TREASON HAS DONE HIS WORST.
NOR STEEL, NOR POISON,MALICE DOMESTIC,
FOREIGN LEVY, NOTHING,CAN TOUCH HIM FURTHER.
COME ON.
GENTLE MY LORD,
SLEEK O'ERYOUR RUGGED LOOKS.
BE BRIGHT AND JOVIALAMONG YOUR GUESTS TONIGHT.
SO SHALL I, LOVE,AND SO, I PRAY, BE YOU.
LET YOUR REMEMBRANCEAPPLY TO BANQUO.
PRESENT HIM EMINENCEBOTH WITH EYE AND TONGUE:
UNSAFE THE WHILE,
THAT WE MUST LAVE OUR HONORSIN THESE FLATTERING STREAMS,
MAKING OUR FACES VIZARDSTO OUR HEARTS,
DISGUISING WHAT THEY ARE!
YOU MUST LEAVE THIS!
FULL OF SCORPIONSIS MY MIND, DEAR WIFE!
THOU KNOWEST THAT BANQUOAND HIS FLEANCE LIVES.
BUT IN THEM NATURE'S COPY'SNOT ETERNE.
AYE, THERE'S COMFORT YET.
THEY ARE ASSAILABLE.
[gasping]
THEN BE THOU JOCUND.
ERE THE BAT HATH FLOWNHIS CLOISTERED FLIGHT,
ERE TO BLACK HECAT'S SUMMONSTHE SHARD-BORNE BEETLE
WITH HIS DROWSY HUMSHATH RUNG NIGHT'S YAWNING PEAL,
THERE SHALL BE DONEA DEED OF DREADFUL NOTE.
WHAT'S TO BE DONE?
THEY--
BE INNOCENT OF THE KNOWLEDGE,DEAREST CHUCK,
TILL THOU APPLAUDTHE DEED.
COME, SEELING NIGHT,
SCARF UP THE TENDER EYEOF PITIFUL DAY,
AND WITH THY BLOODYAND INVISIBLE HAND
CANCEL AND TEAR TO PIECESTHAT GREAT BOND
WHICH KEEPS ME PALE.
LIGHT THICKENS,
AND THE CROW MAKES WINGTO THE ROOKY WOOD.
GOOD THINGS OF DAYBEGIN TO DROOP AND DROWSE,
WHILES NIGHT'SBLACK AGENTS
TO THEIR PREYSDO ROUSE.
AND--
THOU MARVEL'STAT MY WORDS,
BUT HOLD THEE STILL.
THINGS BAD BEGUNMAKE STRONG THEMSELVES...
BY ILL.
SO, PRITHEE.
GO WITH ME.
[rustling]
[breathing heavily]
WHO DID BID THEEJOIN WITH US?
MACBETH.
HE NEEDS NOTOUR MISTRUST,
SINCE HE DELIVERSOUR OFFICES,
AND WHAT WE HAVE TO DO,TO THE DIRECTION JUST.
[thunder rumbling]
THEN STAND WITH US.
THE WEST YET GLIMMERSWITH SOME STREAKS OF DAY.
NOW SPURSTHE LATED TRAVELER APACE
TO GAIN THE TIMELY INN,
AND NEAR, THE SUBJECTOF OUR WATCH APPROACHES.
[horses whinny]
[softly]I HEAR HORSES.
(Banquo) GIVE US A LIGHT THERE!  HO!
THEN 'TIS HE.
THE REST WITHIN EXPECTATIONARE IN THE COURT.
HIS HORSES GO ABOUT.
ALMOST A MILE.
BUT HE DOES USUALLY, FROM HENCETO THE PALACE GATE WALK.
[whispering]A light!
'TIS HE.
STAND TO 'T.
[thunder]
IT WILL BE RAINTONIGHT.
LET IT COME DOWN!
TREACHERY!
[grunting]
FLY, GOOD FLEANCE!  FLY!
FLY!  FLY!
THOU MAYEST REVENGE!
[grunts]
O SLAVE!
WHO DID STRIKE OUTTHE LIGHT?
WAS 'T NOT THE WAY?
THERE'S BUT ONE DOWN;THE SON IS FLED.
WE HAVE LOST THE BEST HALFOF OUR AFFAIR.
WELL, LET'S AWAYAND SAY HOW MUCH IS DONE.
[grunting]
YOU KNOW YOUR OWN DEGREES.SIT DOWN.
AT FIRST AND LAST,A HEARTY WELCOME.
THANKS TOYOUR MAJESTY.
OURSELF WILL MINGLEWITH SOCIETY
AND PLAYTHE HUMBLE HOST.
OUR HOSTESSKEEPS HER STATE,
BUT IN BEST TIMEWE WILL REQUIRE HER WELCOME.
PRONOUNCE IT FOR ME, SIR,TO ALL OUR FRIENDS,
FOR MY HEART SPEAKS,"THEY ARE WELCOME."
[banging]
SEE, THEY ENCOUNTER THEEWITH THEIR HEARTS' THANKS.
NOW WE'LL DRINK A MEASURETHE TABLE ROUND.
[applause]
THERE'S BLOODUPON THY FACE.
'TIS BANQUO'S THEN.
'TIS BETTER THEE WITHOUTTHAN HE WITHIN.
IS HE...DISPATCHED?
AYE, MY LORD.
HIS THROAT IS CUT.THAT I DID FOR HIM.
THOU ART THE BESTOF THE CUTTHROATS.
YET HE'S GOOD THAT DIDTHE LIKE FOR FLEANCE.
IF THOU DIDST IT,THOU ART THE NONPAREIL.
MOST ROYAL SIR,FLEANCE IS 'SCAPED.
[groans]
THEN COMES MY FIT AGAIN.
I HAD ELSE BEEN PERFECT,
WHOLE AS THE MARBLE,FOUNDED AS THE ROCK,
AS BROAD AND GENERALAS THE CASING AIR.
BUT NOW I'M CABINED,CRIBBED, CONFINED,
BOUND INTO SAUCY DOUBTSAND FEARS.
BUT BANQUO'S SAFE?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
SAFE IN A DITCHHE BIDES,
WITH 20 TRENCHED GASHESON HIS HEAD;
THE LEAST A DEATHTO NATURE.
THANKS FOR THAT.
THERE THE GROWNSERPENT LIES.
THE WORM THAT'S FLEDHATH NATURE
THAT IN TIMEWILL VENOM BREED,
NO TEETHFOR THE PRESENT.
NOW GET THEE GONE.
TOMORROW WE'LL HEAROURSELVES AGAIN.
[exhales]
MY ROYAL LORD,YOU DO NOT GIVE THE CHEER.
THE FEAST IS SOLDTHAT IS NOT OFTEN VOUCHED,
WHILE 'TIS A-MAKING,'TIS GIVEN WITH WELCOME.
[chuckling]SWEET REMEMBRANCER!
NOW GOOD DIGESTIONWAIT ON APPETITE,
AND HEALTH ON BOTH!
MAY IT PLEASEYOUR HIGHNESS SIT?
HERE HAD WE NOWOUR COUNTRY'S HONOR ROOFED
WERE THE GRACED PERSONOF OUR BANQUO PRESENT,
WHO MAY I RATHER CHALLENGEFOR UNKINDNESS
THAN PITY FOR MISCHANCE.
HIS ABSENCE, SIR,LAYS BLAME UPON HIS PROMISE.
PLEASE 'T YOUR HIGHNESSTO GRACE US
WITH YOURROYAL COMPANY?
THE TABLE'S FULL.
HERE IS A PLACERESERVED.
WHERE?
HERE,MY GOOD LORD.
[gasps]
WHAT IS IT THAT MOVESYOUR HIGHNESS?
WHICH OF YOUHAVE DONE THIS?
(man) WHAT, MY GOOD LORD?
[gasps]
THOU CANST NOT SAY I DID IT.
NEVER SHAKE THY GORY LOCKS AT ME!
GENTLEMEN, RISE.HIS HIGHNESS IS NOT WELL.
SIT, WORTHY FRIENDS.
MY LORD IS OFTEN THUS,
AND HATH BEENFROM HIS YOUTH.
PRAY YOU KEEP SEAT.
THE FIT IS MOMENTARY.
UPON A THOUGHTHE WILL AGAIN BE WELL.
IF MUCH YOU NOTE HIM,
YOU SHALL OFFEND HIMAND EXTEND HIS PASSION.
FEED,AND REGARD HIM NOT.
[whispering]Are you a man?
AYE, AND A BOLD ONE,
THAT DARE LOOK ON THATWHICH MIGHT APPALL THE DEVIL!
OH, PROPER STUFF!
THIS IS THE VERY PAINTINGOF YOUR FEAR.
THIS ISTHE AIR-DRAWN DAGGER
WHICH YOU SAIDLED YOU TO DUNCAN.
OH, THESE FLAWS AND STARTS,IMPOSTORS TO TRUE FEAR,
WOULD WELL BECOMEA WOMAN'S STORY AT A FIRE,
AUTHORIZED BY HER GRANDAM.
SHAME ITSELF,WHY DO YOU MAKE SUCH FACES?
WHEN ALL'S DONE,YOU LOOK BUT ON A STOOL.
PRITHEE SEE THERE!
BEHOLD!  LOOK!  LO!ALL SAY YOU?
WHY, WHAT CARE I?
IF THOU CANST NOD,SPEAK TOO!
IF CHARNEL HOUSESAND OUR GRAVES
MUST SEND THOSETHAT WE BURY BACK,
OUR MONUMENTS SHALL BETHE MAWS OF KITES!
WHAT?  QUITE UNMANNEDIN FOLLY?
[panting]
IF--IF I STAND HERE,I SAW HIM.
FIE, FOR SHAME!
THE TIME HAS BEEN,THAT WHEN THE BRAINS WERE OUT,
THE MAN WOULD DIE,AND THERE AN END.
BUT NOW THEY RISE AGAIN
WITH 20 MORTAL MURDERSON THEIR CROWNS,
AND PUSH USFROM OUR STOOLS.
THIS IS MORE STRANGETHAN SUCH A MURDER IS.
[both panting]
MY WORTHY LORD,
YOUR NOBLE FRIENDSDO LACK YOU.
I DO FORGET.
DO NOT MUSE AT ME,MY MOST WORTHY FRIENDS.
I HAVEA STRANGE INFIRMITY,
WHICH IS NOTHINGTO THOSE THAT KNOW ME.
COME, LOVE AND HEALTHTO ALL!
THEN I'LL SIT DOWN.
COME, GIVE MESOME WINE.
FILL FULL.
I DRINK TO THE GENERAL JOYOF THE WHOLE TABLE,
AND TO OURDEAR FRIEND BANQUO,
WHOM WE MISS.
WOULD HE WERE HERE.
TO ALL, AND HIM,WE THIRST,
AND ALL TO ALL!
OUR DUTIESAND THE PLEDGE!
(all)THE PLEDGE!
AVAUNT, AND QUIT MY SIGHT!
LET THE EARTH HIDE THEE!
THY BONES ARE MARROWLESS,THY BLOOD IS COLD.
THOU HAST NO SPECULATIONIN THOSE EYES
WHICH THOU DOST GLARE WITH!
THINK OF THIS,GOOD PEERS,
BUT AS A THINGOF CUSTOM.
'TIS NO OTHER.
ONLY IT SPOILSTHE PLEASURE OF THE TIME.
WHAT MAN DARE, I DARE.
APPROACH THOU LIKETHE RUGGED RUSSIAN BEAR,
THE ARMED RHINOCEROS,OR THE HYRCAN TIGER.
TAKE ANY SHAPE BUT THAT,
AND MY FIRM NERVESSHALL NEVER TREMBLE!
OR BE ALIVE AGAIN, AND DARE METO THE DESERT WITH THY SWORD!
IF TREMBLING I INHABIT THEN,PROTEST ME THE BABY OF A GIRL!
HENCE, HORRIBLE SHADOW!
UNREAL MOCKERY!
HENCE!
[breathing heavily]
WHY, SO.
BEING GONE,I AM A MAN AGAIN.
PRAY YOU, SIT STILL.
YOU HAVE DISPLACEDTHE MIRTH,
BROKE THE GOOD MEETING,
WITH MOST ADMIREDDISORDER.
CAN SUCH THINGS BE,
AND OVERCOME USLIKE A SUMMER'S CLOUD,
WITHOUT OUR SPECIAL WONDER?
[Macbeth chuckles]
YOU MAKE ME STRANGE EVENTO THAT DISPOSITION THAT I OWE,
WHEN NOW I THINKYOU CAN BEHOLD SUCH SIGHTS
AND KEEP THE NATURAL RUBYOF YOUR CHEEKS,
WHILE MINEIS BLANCHED WITH FEAR.
WHAT SIGHTS?
I PRAY YOUSPEAK NOT!
HE GROWS WORSEAND WORSE!
QUESTION ENRAGES HIM.
AT ONCE,GOOD NIGHT.
STAND NOT UPON THE ORDEROF YOUR GOING, BUT GO AT ONCE!
GOOD NIGHT,
AND BETTER HEALTHATTEND HIS MAJESTY!
A KIND GOOD NIGHTTO ALL!
IT WILL HAVE BLOOD,THEY SAY.
BLOOD WILL HAVE BLOOD.
STONES HAVE BEENKNOWN TO MOVE
AND TREES TO SPEAK.
AUGURS ANDUNDERSTOOD RELATIONS
HAVE BY MAGGOT PIESAND CHOUGHS AND ROOKS
BROUGHT FORTHTHE SECRET'ST MAN OF BLOOD.
WHAT IS THE NIGHT?
ALMOST AT ODDS WITH MORNING,WHICH IS WHICH.
HOW SAY'ST THOU,
THAT MACDUFF DENIESHIS PERSON
AT OUR GREAT BIDDING?
DID YOU...SEND TO HIM, SIR?
I HEAR IT BY THE WAY.
THERE'S NOTA ONE OF THEM
BUT IN HIS HOUSEI KEEP A SERVANT FEED.
BUT I WILL SEND;I WILL TOMORROW.
AND BETIMES I WILLTO THE WEIRD SISTERS.
MORE THEY SHALL SPEAK.
FOR NOW I AM BENT TO KNOWBY THE WORST MEANS,
THE WORST!
FOR MINE OWN GOODALL CAUSES SHALL GIVE WAY!
[clattering]
I AM IN BLOOD...
STEPPED IN...
SO FAR...
THAT SHOULD IWADE IN NO MORE,
RETURNING...
WERE AS TEDIOUSAS GO O'ER.
STRANGE THINGS I HAVE IN HEADTHAT WILL TO HAND,
WHICH MUST BE ACTEDERE THEY MAY BE SCANNED.
YOU LACK THE SEASONOF ALL NATURES,
SLEEP.
HA!
COME!
WE'LL TO SLEEP.
MY STRANGE AND SELF-ABUSEIS THE INITIATE FEAR
THAT WANTS HARD USE.
WE...
ARE YET BUT YOUNG...
IN DEED.